So how do I fold all of these best practices into one training program that's not 200 hours a week seven days a week? That's what I've laid out to you. Make sense? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Makes sense. ANDY GALPIN: Cool. Let me walk you through it. And then, maybe we'll come back into each individual category and you can ask questions about them. So the way that I think is best is to have a goal. And have that goal be around eight to 10 weeks long, like we've been talking about. So what I gave you is, let's start off with quarter number one of the year. So perhaps January through March or so-- and it doesn't have to be this long, but just as an example. You decide your goal is going to be to put some muscle mass on. So we're going to prioritize adding muscle. Now, within that, you're going to be bulking up, adding some muscle, but we're also going to be sleeping more. We know we need extra recovery in this session. And we need to go up in calories. Now, this happens to work nice for a couple of reasons. But in that protocol, maybe we're going to do seven days or seven sessions a week of physical activity. Doesn't mean seven days. But maybe those sessions are something like I will do one indoor sport. This could be basketball, could be any number of things. So I got my sport ticked off, and it's indoors. Why? I'm in January to March. The weather's probably not great for most of the world. So I'm not going to do as much outside activity. I'm going to do weights maybe three or four times a week, and then maybe two days a week I'll go for a long walk. Again, we'll come back and I'll explain to you why I made all these individual choices so you're going to run that for the first quarter. At the end of this quarter you're going to take a de-load week. Now, this could be fully off. Maybe this is when you schedule a vacation. Maybe this is backing off. Maybe you just keep your walks in and you spend the extra time on your family, or work, or whatever else we need to do. So we've bulked up a little bit. We spent 12 weeks adding some mass. Now we're going to transition into quarter two, which is where we start to actually get lean. This is actually a pretty standard bodybuilding template, which is put on some mass first, and then you get lean after that. So now we're going to get lean from April to June. We're going to bring calories down a little bit. So now we're actually going to play in a hypocaloric caloric state somewhat. The days tend to get longer. So we're going to have more time to spend in the sun. So we're going to shift a little bit from an indoor sport activity, like the example I said earlier was basketball, to maybe stand-up paddleboarding, or some other thing where you're actually getting your sport done, you're reacting, you're using proprioception, but now you're getting that sun in there as well because you have a greater opportunity to actually do so, and the weather probably is going to cooperate with you more often than it would in, say, February. You then maybe going to pick a fitness or an exercise class. Any number of routines where you're with multiple people. And then, two days a week in addition to that, you're going to maybe lift some weights. So now, we've added some muscle. Now we've got lean. And all of a sudden, we're actually looking pretty good for the summertime. Hmm. Interesting. Quarter three, July to September, we'll transition, and we'll try to get into great cardiovascular shape. So we'll transition more into some high intensity interval type of stuff more frequently. We're going to maybe stay at maintenance calories now. We spend a little bit of time hyper, then we went hypo, and now we're going to go back to maintenance and keep along. We're going to continue to choose some outdoor sports, but maybe you change it up. Maybe you keep the same one. Maybe now we switch it out on the golf, or now we pick a pickleball, or we play basketball, but now we just do it outside. Any number of things you can do. So maybe even we do a couple. Change it up. You do that twice a week. You're spending more time in the sun now. You're looking outside and you're seeing this great weather and you're not cooped up in a gym but you're getting your physical fitness in. That's also going to be aiding in your high intensity or your interval, your conditioning, because you're doing more stuff like that rather than lifting in a gym. And then, maybe you're actually going to do some track workouts. Maybe we'll do this on a bike, or we'll do some hill sprints outside, any number of things. And then we'll do that maybe twice a week. And then we'll still lift weights twice a week in our gym. The last quarter then is going to be October to December. And we're going to transition there into more pure cardiovascular fitness. Because we're doing that, we're going to be working harder. And remember, cardiovascular training is generally expelling much more calories than lifting. So we're going to actually go up in calories. We're going to return to that. And that works out kind of well, because I don't know if or not, but people tend to eat a little more calories from the months of, say, November through December. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, holidays, and at least in northern hemisphere, colder temperatures. ANDY GALPIN: Totally. Maybe even we play with two workouts a day here. We're trying to get really in shape. We're trying to improve our conditioning and our endurance in multiple areas. We're going to actually transition back into an indoor sport. So maybe we're going to do some kickboxing, or a jiu jitsu class, or something like that. We're going to maybe hit the cardio machine once or twice. Now we're hopping on a StairMaster, a VersaClimber, more maybe get an assault bike going, something like that. Maybe hit some machines and do our lifting there. Maybe we spent the rest of the earlier part of the year on barbells and dumbbells. We'll transition to some machines. And then we'll still try to get outside and walk twice a week. And that gets us our outside activity, but it's not necessarily a structured program. So we've got 15 minutes where the weather's breaking a little bit. So let's walk, get outside, and get a walk in. So that's the overall structure of everything. I would like to actually go back to the beginning now and walk through each one of these things in detail and explain why I chose certain things. I've kind of given some hints already. But I think it'd be helpful to walk back to the beginning and start there. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Great. I of the overall structure. I have just a couple of questions. The idea of training mostly for hypertrophy January through March makes sense. Followed by a period from April through June focusing primarily on fat loss. And then from July to September, speed and interval type work. And then October to December, you put to emphasize endurance type training. I thought for a moment that when we got to October, December, you were going to emphasize strength. And I'm wondering whether or not there's any incentive for training for strength October, December, so that when one arrives at the hypertrophy training January through March, we're that much stronger. The idea being then there's more muscle to hold on to as one then tries to lose fat from April through June. And then July through September is the speed work. Or is July through September the speed slash power phase of the program? ANDY GALPIN: The July through September would be more like your higher heart rate, learning to get all the way up, maximum exertion, and then recovering. ANDREW HUBERMAN: An October to December is long-form endurance? ANDY GALPIN: Moderate to long-form. So it's closer to that aerobic capacity stuff. It is closer to longer duration and moving through that spectrum. You are astute in pointing out that I didn't have pure strength really in there. You certainly could fold it in. But quite literally, if you spent three months bulking up in January to March, that's going to bring some strength along the way. So you should be fine there. But you absolutely could alter any of these variables if you want to emphasize something more than other one. So say you actually felt like you ran through the fitness testing. And you identified, actually, your endurance is pretty good. But you're struggling maybe with a little bit of strength and maybe a little bit of lower muscle mass. You could substitute quarter three or quarter four and say, one of those quarters will be strength. And then I'll do all of my conditioning in another quarter. And what you've really done is the programming is still fairly simple. You've just altered the priorities a little bit. And therefore, you've altered the adaptation across the year. And why this is really important, this template is meant to be something you can just run back year after year after year. And you make a subtle change like that. And now, over the course of five, 10, 20 years, you're going to be in a fantastic spot at the end. So you can make easy adjustments along the way as priorities pop up, as goals pop up. But you're going to be in a position where everything is-- there's nothing that's going to be lagging behind. You'll be in a good spot. Most of your bases are covered to be pretty lean, have a good amount of muscle, and to be in great shape. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Two other questions. One just a quick question. For sake of generating proprioceptive feedback-- during the endurance phase, is trail-running a good option? ANDY GALPIN: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Great. Thinking back to the days running cross-country. It's October, December, you're trail-running. ANDY GALPIN: Totally. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Training for endurance. ANDY GALPIN: The ground is not super solid, which is even better in this case. So you're making more choices and trying to not fall on your face. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Absolutely. And then you mentioned bulking up. And I just wanted to highlight that there are some folks, myself included, while I'd like to add a little bit of muscle here or there, I'm not interested in overeating to the point where I lay down a lot of body fat stores along with that. ANDY GALPIN: Sure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I think a lot of people out there are not necessarily interested in, quote unquote, bulking up. I also-- my understanding of the literature-- and tell me if I'm wrong-- is that while there does need to be some sort of caloric surplus above what is required to maintain body weight in order to build muscle, that many people who try and, quote unquote, bulk up basically just end up expanding the size of their cheeks and face along with their limbs and torso. [LAUGHS] ANDY GALPIN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm not trying to poke fun at them. But the idea of deliberately overeating to the point where a lot of body fat stores come along, I would imagine that would just make the April through June phase that much harder. ANDY GALPIN: Correct. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I'm not sure it's ever been studied directly. But I can't imagine it's all that-- excuse me, all that healthy, to bring along a lot of adipose tissue in one's pursuit of hypertrophy. ANDY GALPIN: You're absolutely correct. We have not gotten into the nutritional details there. But yeah, thank you. Good clarification point. A couple of things. You're not going to be doing this very long. It's 12 weeks. We're not going to be six, seven, or eight months. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You haven't seen me eat. [LAUGHTER] ANDY GALPIN: Number two, just since we're here to clarify, the literature is ongoing in this area. And there's actually a handful of studies that I know are coming soon. But in general, when I say hypercaloric here, I'm referring to an increasing caloric intake above baseline by something like 10% to 15%. So if you normally eat 2,500 calories throughout the day, you might add another 250 to 400. I'm not doubling calories. I don't want you to be stuffing your face, hating food, feeling awful all day, and then putting on half of your weight as fat and half your weight as muscle. It is just technically hypercaloric because you're eating more, which is an absolute requirement for most people to add muscle. Some folks who have a high percentage of body fat and a low level of fitness training can actually get away with just being either isocaloric, technically, or even a little bit lower, and still adding some muscle while losing some fat. But for most folks, that's going to be challenging. So you're going to want to be in a hypercaloric state. Another reason I put it in here is because, remember, people tend to make these extra calorie choices during this part of the year anyways. And so, you're playing into life is why I chose that. It's like, hey, you can't restrict calories all the time. It's really, really hard. So maybe if we can put it calorie restriction during the phases of the year that's a little bit easier, and give you the freedom to have a little bit more calories during the phase of the year when you're probably going to want to do that anyways. Just make sure you're doing a style of training that supports that. So you're going to be trying to add muscle when you know you're going to be adding more calories. We're going to be trying to really push the pace on our conditioning when we know we're going to be eating more calories anyways. And so, that is actually, in fact, exactly why I chose those goals for those times of the year. It's because we're now playing into life a little bit more. But we, again, certainly do not want to be eating to an excess or where it's causing some of the problems you mentioned. We just need to be eating a little bit more. The last point here is, the next phase, April to June, we know we're going hypocaloric. So it's always kind of nice to go, yeah, we're going to go in a little bit of a calorie deficit here. But it's really just these few months. And it's OK, because I spent the last six months where I wasn't restricting that much, and then one actually where I got to eat a little bit more. And now, cool, not hard for me to convince somebody that to go we're going to bring the calories down right now, or in a month, in two months. And it's just going to be this 12 or 16-week phase, or whatever you end up being in there. So those were some of the rationale that I was thinking of when I decided to do that. But thank you. That's a very important point in terms of the hypocaloric. It's not the dirty bulk. It's not the excess that a lot of folks will do. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And just a final point for folks in the Southern hemisphere, Australia, and South Americans. ANDY GALPIN: Ah, flip everything. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We actually have a large listenership in the Southern hemisphere. Of course, adjust accordingly. Even though the holiday months are still in November, December, there are, of course, holidays all year long. ANDY GALPIN: Of course. You got Fourth of July. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Many, many of the major holidays are around November, December. But it's summer down there. Just adjust accordingly. There's nothing holy about trying to achieve certain adaptations at certain times of year. It's more about trying to eliminate bottlenecks, defenders, as you mentioned. And it's really about the sequence.